Parent: [[HOME-Personal Knowledge Management Systems]]
Date: :2023/11/04 :21:48
Category: #readme #topicMOC
Tags: 
Synopsis:  Reference for understanding the  tag system.

# Introduction

# Introduction
Tags (along with crosslinks) are one of the central ways of relating ideas to each other. 
A tag is the same as a twitter hashtag, e.g. a hash character followed by one or more words, no spaces.   They are used to group related Ideas

Obsidian has amazing tools for easily visualizing, sorting and editing tags.
For example, clicking on an individual tag will show a list of all references to that tag. 
You can use this to review and consolidate your tags.  

There is also visual tag map (below the search icon in the left icon bar), You can see all tag references, or  a local tag map related to links within a certain distance from the current note.    As your system grows, understanding the local tag map will be important. 

You probably don't want a million tags in your system.

## TODO: Make Sure tags are universal
*  **Consider** - Move the "Category" field into the tags (That's what it is, after all!)
- "**Atomic Note**""  means "standalone" - Did not mean anything to one frend  Consider Card or
- **Note Taxonomy** Is intended to show the maturity status of the note: How well it is cross referenced, and if it is "done"
	 *  Aidan Has:  Seedling, Fern, Evergreen, Moc
	 * Consider: seedling, sapling, tree, forest
	 * Something else?    Inbox -> Idea -> Moc -> Topic.

# Category Tags
Category is a separate field on the notes, which contains a tag, usually one of the "ZettelKasten" tags or a general tag, like "Author" or "Book" 

These are used to give an idea of the main purpose of the note:  zettel(idea), reference, readme, etc.

### ZettelKasten Specific tags 
These tag names are specific to the zettel system, and some were generated by Aidan Helfant.  As such, they represent something you have to learn to use this system.   
Consider replacing them with a more generalized terms 

These terms organize your notes from new undeveloped ideas (seeds) all the way up to grand, well thought out topics (mocs)
#AtomicNote - (Zettel) A core idea, expressed in your own words, that stands on its own without reference to the source material, with links to source material and related notes.
* #seed - A new idea note, requiring development (Replace with:  review? Inbox? )
* #fern - An idea in development, needs more research
* #evergreen - A mature, stable note, describing a well known concept. 
*  #topicMOC  - Map Of Content:  A centralized area for a topic, mostly containing links to other notes 

---
## General Tags 
These tags describe content that should be familiar to pretty much anyone with a brain..

* #Authors - Home page for an author.
* #book - Notes on a book.
* #goals  - Related to goal setting systems.
*  #readme -  A general readme, or how-to guide.
*  #software - Notes on software used to do this stuff.

---
# Tags representing specific systems

* #codeNotes  The Code Note Taking system
* #obsidian - The obsidian software for navigating a plain-text knowledge vault
* #para - Related to the PARA note organizing system by Tiago Forte
* #SecondBrain -  Second Brain Systems (sometimes called PMK or Personal 
*  #Zettelkasten - The ZettelKasten (Card System) of organizing and linking notes.

 
